I've been asked a lot what I think the
future of SEO is I've went some quotes
to blogs and and I get asked that all
the time and I'm not a smart person and
I don't always know so I asked my buddy
bill who runs bill king who runs SEO and
paid acquisition over a drift what he
thought checkout a quick clip of our
conversation so longer from conversation
there's a link to every single piece of
this conversation in the description
below but check out this quick clip like
we're not two gurus we're just people in
the trenches telling you what we see now
in SEO and what we think could be
happening in the future and how to be
the most important how to be prepared
for that future let's check that out you
were kind of touched on this briefly but
I think it's super fascinating I love
your take on it future of SEO like not
asking you to like look into the crystal
ball but like I've heard you talk a lot
about like SEO is changing in terms of
platforms right like Amazon is SEO
podcasting is SEO like things beyond
Google tell me more about that but then
also tell me like where do you see you
know we there's statistics that are
getting thrown around a lot about how
many clicks are no click searches and
all of that different something I want
to use you for the future of SEO well I
think that the standard like kind of
like what you're trying to do they're
trying to remove friction from buying I
think that every platform knows that if
they don't remove friction to the user
somebody else will right so Google's
motivation is to be the place to go for
information they are not designed to be
a search engine that's just the
mechanism that they have right now to a
little bit of information I remember
hearing something about like technology
and somebody made a joke about someday
we're gonna laugh at using these meat
sticks to type something into the
computer and I was like wow what a what
an interesting perspective on that and I
like I think you need to stay
open-minded you need to stay focused on
what works today but do not lose sight
of like where trends are going and I
think in SEO sometimes that is the water
voice like you hear people all the time
talking about what's next but I think
like if you have a certain level of
expertise on how to execute today you
have more time to
about what's model right and I just I
just think keeping in mind that in this
short period of time the amount of
attention that has been fragmented from
when I worked at a record store in Rhode
Island selling tickets and CDs to today
and like how fragmented and how many
options there are and how many different
ways we choose to consume information
and content just having that context
like you need you to just understand how
people behave what they want like six
months ago didn't everybody hate
Facebook well it's still around because
it's convenient in this whole like you
know push against data security which is
very very important don't get me wrong
but like convenience almost always
outweigh the other stuff that we hear
about in the news all the time it's
click worthy because it's fear and
people are afraid of you know of those
those coming trends but people were
afraid of the Internet
10 years ago and now the whole world's
economy revolves around it so I think
like just understanding those things and
like don't wait until it's already the
new thing I think you have to understand
that value comes at the early fringes
right like remember Gary Vaynerchuk like
built his career is wine like library
business off like two cents per click
Google Ads I've got four key takeaways
from this video number one you can't
punch experience now in the hopes that
you're you'll guess right and you'll be
ready for the future thinking about the
future does not give you permission to
ignore what works today number two I was
way too excited for that sorry
convenience and removing friction is the
name of the game right Google is looking
to do that they will only continue
sending people out to other web sites so
long as that is still the best thing for
Google look tick-tock is growing for a
lot of reasons I'm not gonna pretend to
be an expert on it but I know one of the
reasons they are growing is that they
remove the friction of sharing stuff
from the platform right it's very easy
to download your tick-tocks share them
on Twitter on Instagram Instagram native
and your stories everywhere else
Facebook if people are doing that like
wherever your audience is right now you
can share your tic TOCs and a lot of
platforms make it really hard to share
your stuff they're trying to keep you on
the platform tic toc realize they can
drive people to the platform by allowing
them to share tic TOCs
elsewhere so instead of complaining
about how other platforms couldn't share
things instead of complaining about
Google right let's look at how they're
removing friction and adapt around it
number three understanding what people
want how they behave human psychology is
more important than ever if you're
watching what people are doing Gary
Vaynerchuk jokes all the time that he
walks watches what teenagers are looking
at on their phone right they want to see
how they interact and what they're on
and different things when I was a high
school teacher I asked my students all
the time what social media platforms
they were using today Google stuff like
where do they go for information all
that sort of thing I want to see how
trends are changing you have to
understand read influenced by Robert she
aldini right all that information is out
there for you but understanding human
psychology is key especially because
number four most of the value is in the
early stages of something the people who
built the first big Facebook pages the
first big Instagram accounts
tick-tock you're seeing it right now the
same was true for SEO and Google Apps
the things that got authority initially
and we're able to keep up with things
like all that value is writing that
first wave it's so possible to grow on
all those platforms so possible to grow
an SEO but getting in early and
understanding what's happening early is
the way to go we see that all the time
at directive right where we work with
software companies and we're starting to
see that it's harder and harder to drive
traffic right to them because companies
like kaptara and software advice in G to
all of these other aggregator websites
these review websites rank for like best
whatever software so let's play within
those platforms right let's do the
search monopoly tactic I'll link that
video in the description how to execute
a search monopoly where you don't just
rank number one you rank number two
three and four because you're ranking
within those platforms
seeing where the game is going is really
the key so what's the future of SEO like
I don't really know I just want to give
you the tactics to keep up with it right
and I know that I have a community of
people around me that are keeping up
with it with me if you want to follow me
you want to follow bill make sure to
subscribe to this channel make sure to
check out the 1 ranking away challenge
100 days of seo.com / challenge you can
check out a few different playlists in
the description below a playlist of the
rest of my interview with bill a
playlist about SEO growing your
marketing career all sorts of different
value there in the description if you're
creating videos like me make sure you
check out pot Reacher comm Jacqueline or
team of POD Reacher's who helped me take
all my videos on my podcast everything
turn it into actionable written content
that ranks well helps convert people
check them out at pod Reacher dot-com
and let me know in the comments below
like what do you think the future of SEO
is what do you think is going to be the
future of all of this is it going to be
all no click searches is Google gonna
pull back or people gonna go to another
search engine because Google's
experience is just through the incumbant
and it's just not great any more let me
know in the description below
I've been Brandon Hufford don't forget
to work hard be nice people and don't
get too lost trying to create something
that matters
[Music]